Today we're going to talk about squats
and why you need to be doing them, but
not the reason that you think. A lot of
people put squats in their programs
because they know it's a great exercise,
but when I ask them the question, what
are you trying to achieve? They don't
know the answer. Are you squatting to
build muscle? Are you squatting to build
strength? Because those are two
different types of squats. When the
focus is building muscle, you need to
consider what muscles are we actually
building. Most people do a squat because
they want to build quadriceps. But it's
not as simple as just walking in and
doing a squat and building quadriceps
because not all squats build quadriceps.
If your goal is to build the big muscles
on the front of your thighs, you need to
position your body in a way to be able
to do that. And there's two things you
need to think of. The barbell position,
your body position. And I'm going to
show you both of those right now for my
favorite quadricep developing squat
pattern, the stiletto squat.
Let's start with the grip that I use. To
be honest with you, I'm not the best
person to look for when it comes to
grip. The cue that I give is to hold the
barbell as close as your shoulder
mobility allows. And a lot of people
look at this and say, "Why are you
holding it wide?" That's because I can't
bring my hands closer. I don't have very
good shoulder mobility. But that is
actually me following the same queue.
That is as close as my shoulder mobility
allows. So, the reason why we do that is
to increase the tension of our upper
backs. If you're intentionally holding
it with a wider grip, your shoulder
blades are protracting, which relaxes
the midback muscles, which is the
rhomboids and the trapezius. If we bring
our hands closer and closer, we are
doing the opposite, which is retracting
the shoulder blades or squeezing the
shoulder blades together, which engages
those midback muscles. Why do I want
that? Because that's the muscles and the
structures that support my thoracic
spine, which is my upper back. When I'm
pulling my elbows back and squeezing
those together and holding with a tight
close grip, I'm squeezing those shoulder
blades together. It makes it impossible
for me to break form in my upper back.
So, for me to round in my upper back, my
shoulder blades need to come forward.
Which is why holding the barbell close
and bring the shoulder blades together
protects your upper back from rounding.
But it's not just about upper back, it's
about lower back as well. Which is why
the cue isn't just to hold the bar close
and bring your shoulder blades together.
I also want you to think about pulling
your elbows down or your entire shoulder
girdle down. Hands close and shoulder
blades together is midback muscles. And
then elbows down and shoulder girdle
down is how we recruit the lats. The
lats attach at the front of the
humorris, the front of this bone here.
They come underneath and they come all
the way to the top of the pelvis and it
crosses the longest distance of our
spine of all of the core muscles. So
whenever you want to load your spine
maximally, you want the biggest
strongest muscles available to do that.
And amongst many other core muscles, the
lats I would say are the biggest
contributor for maintaining a strong and
rigid spine. The next thing you got to
consider for a high bar squat pattern or
a quad dominant squat pattern is bar
placement. So with my hands close, I'm
going to favor a high bar squat. The low
bar squat is going to force me to tip
over more and push my hips back, which
makes me use more hips. I don't want
that. I want to balance that bar on my
upper traps to maintain an upright
torso. Check this out.
So, this is upper trapezius. So, that's
low. That's a low bar squat. That's my
rear delts. This is high bar squat.
That's my upper trapezius. And that's
where I'm going to be resting the
barbell when my focus is to be as
upright as possible so that I can do a
quad focus squat pattern. Something that
you might be wondering is how
comfortable or uncomfortable this is to
place the barbell on your neck like
that. Well, I'm not really placing it on
my neck. I'm placing it on soft tissue,
which is my muscles. Do not place it on
your vertebrae. Don't place it on bony
structures. So, check this out.
I'm placing it on upper trapezius. I
don't place it on my neck muscles, on my
neck bones here. That's the cervical
spine. If you do that, it is going to
hurt. But if you place it on the upper
trapezius, those muscles are creating a
shelf for that barbell to sit on. Now,
if you're a beginner and you've never
done heavy barbell squats, I'll tell you
now, you might feel discomfort. That's a
conditioning process and it happens to
all of us. It happened to me when I
first started training. I was using I
was wrapping a towel around the barbell.
I was using uh those foam pads and those
are actually not a very good thing to do
for your squat pattern. Uh it changes
the center of mass. It makes you hold
the bar in a higher position which is
just not right for the squat pattern. So
it is uncomfortable initially but your
skin really conditions and gets used to
that position and in time you don't feel
it at all. So for me whenever I'm
placing the barbell on my back I don't
have any discomfort on my skin or on my
neck. You're placing the barbell on
muscle not bony landmarks. And any
discomfort on the skin
it happens to everyone that I know
especially when you first start. So, if
that's happening to you, that's all
good. You will be conditioned in time.
Now, let's have a look at the stiletto
squat in real time. I'm going to go for
three reps on this weight.
[Applause]
So you saw the barbell position, you saw
how I maintain an upright torso angle.
The next thing you need to really be
focusing on is taking the muscles
through the greatest stretch. So from a
fully stretched position to a fully
contracted position. So how do I do
that? I go as deep as possible, but not
just deep in the squat. Deep in the
exact muscle group and joint that I'm
trying to work on, which is knee joint.
I want to maximize my knee bend to as
deep as I can go. How deep? Until your
hamstring is pressing against your calf.
That's how I know I've maximally flexed
my knee joint. So that's flexion. So
that I can extend my knee joint. So if
it's just a partial rep like this,
that's not maximal stretch on the
quadriceps. So, this is why I love the
heel elevation, it allows me to achieve
that full knee bend while still
maintaining
and neutral spine position. Okay, so
check this out. If I don't stand on that
heel elevation, to get that full knee
bend, I need to really round my lower
back, which takes a lot of the tension
off my quadriceps and puts it on my
back. If your goal is to build your back
muscles, fine. That could be okay. But
typically, most people do this to build
quadriceps. And if your goal is to build
quadriceps, maximize knee bend and
minimize any movement at your spine and
your hips. And that's the bottom
position of your quad dominant squats.
So this red plate that I'm using, that's
my preference. It's the thickest plate
of the bumper plates that I have. My
mobility isn't amazing. It's okay. And
some people respond very well. Some
people, this is a little bit too thick.
Some people prefer a smaller, slightly
smaller heel elevation. Uh, and if
that's you, as long as you can achieve
that position where your torso is as
upright as possible and your hamstring
is pressing against your calf. Now, that
brings me on to the next point with the
heel elevation. Some people use these
types of heel ramps, these are great,
don't get me wrong. However, in my
experience, having a look at the angle
that this is placed on,
this forces you to keep your feet
straight, which can work. But in my
experience, whenever I'm going as deep
as I can, I want my knees to go slightly
outwards. So therefore, I need to
slightly point my toes outwards. Now, if
you point your toes outwards on a ramp
like this, have a look at my ankles.
It's going to force my ankles to cave
in.
Okay? Because the ramp is pointing
downwards and I'm pointing my toes
outwards. It doesn't match, which is why
I prefer a plate here so that I can
contour my feet in that same direction
as that round edge of the plate. So
that's why I prefer the heel elevation
of a plate rather than a ramp that's
pointing your feet straight ahead. If
you have ramps, if you have two
different ramps and you can point them
outwards in the same direction as your
toes, fantastic. Use that. But if you're
using one of these, notice that it's
going to force your ankles to cave in.
You don't want that. Have a look at my
shoes. This is just a flat sold shoe. I
love these shoes. They're actually
boxing shoes, but they're very
comfortable for me. But my
recommendation is to not use a running
sneaker. They're too thick and cushiony.
And the more cushiony that the shoe is,
the less stability that you have. The
next alternative to that is a heel
elevated squat shoe
that they use in Olympic weightlifting.
Let me show you mine. Come over here.
These are my squat shoes. And this is
the standard weightlifting shoe. These
are Adidas brand. Not sponsored by them.
Nike is good. And there's lots of other
great brands as well. But if you have a
look at the heel elevation here, that's
about 1 in or slightly less than 1 in.
So for me, look at the difference
between heel elevation with this shoe
and that is this is about 2 in and this
is just less than 1 in. So I need
slightly more heel elevation than that
to be able to achieve that perfect
upright position. The next thing is I
wouldn't use these as well as that. And
the reason why is this sole is is rock
solid that doesn't bend and therefore it
doesn't grip onto that plate very well.
So the cushiony the slight cushion on
the sole of this shoe allows my feet to
grip on to the edge of that plate and
sit comfortably. Some people think that
their balance might be an issue and that
would be an issue if you're using this
rock hard surface. This kind of rocks
from side to side. It doesn't quite grip
to the edge. So don't use the
weightlifting shoes if you're going to
do the stiletto squat with a plate. Use
whatever your sneaker that you have so
that it grips onto the edge and that's
nice and stable. Another concern people
have is that's a lot of knee bend. Is
that going to hurt my knees? Well, if we
have a look at the weight here, that's
170 kg. My best squat is well over 300
kg. So, this isn't I'm not maxing out on
this type of squat pattern. So, although
it does place load on the knee joint,
the knee joints are strong and they're
designed to bear load. So, the best way
to strengthen anything is to gradually
load it over time. I didn't just come in
and one day squat 170 kg in this
technique. I've gradually built the
conditioning of my knees to be able to
accept that weight. So if that's you and
you've got a concern with that, don't
start with a heavy weight. Start with a
light weight. Start with even a goblet
squat. So a goblet squat, I'll just use
light plate here. And this is, you know,
you can use a dumbbell or a plate or
whatever. This is how you can just
gradually feel that range of motion
under load and start practicing and
conditioning your knees with a light
weight. And then like everything, you
apply the principle of progressive
overload. gradually get heavier and
heavier. Your knee joints get stronger
and stronger and then you're able to
squat heavy weights with your knees with
no problem. When it comes to squatting
for muscle building, we want to consider
a few things. The optimal rep ranges for
hypertrophy is a lot more flexible than
it is for strength. What does that mean?
It means that the research shows us that
we can build equal amounts of muscle
mass up to 30 rep range. So, that's
pretty broad. However, don't just take
that research and consider we should be
doing 30 reps of squats. that's not
optimal. We need to consider the
complexity of the movement as well. So,
when it comes to building muscle, we
need to choose a rep range that's
appropriate for that specific exercise.
And in my opinion, for the squats, the
optimal rep range for building muscle is
anywhere between four reps up to eight
reps. Of course, you can do slightly
more than that, but that's what you need
to consider. The muscle that you're
targeting needs to be the limiting
factor of the movement. And usually when
I'm doing an exercise like a squat or a
stiletto squat, when I'm doing more than
eight reps on that complex movement,
that's when other muscles start to
fatigue such as my low back or even my
cardiovascular system. And that's not
the intention. When the goal is building
muscle, when the goal is building
muscle, you need to think of the exact
muscle that you're trying to build and
that is the muscle that needs to fatigue
first. So therefore, optimal rep range
for muscle building for an exercise like
a stiletto squat or any of your quad
dominant free weight squat patterns. In
my opinion, four to eight rep range is
the sweet spot.
So, let's have a look at the techniques
that I just used. Starting with the bar
placement. Same rule applies
with grip position. Holding the bar as
close as your shoulder mobility allows.
Remember, I don't have very good
shoulder mobility, so that's why I'm
holding it from collar to collar, but
that's as close as my shoulder mobility
allows. When I come underneath the bar,
I'm placing it on the shelf created by
my rear deltoids. That's the shoulder
muscles. Once again, I'm not placing on
any bony landmarks. So, if you feel that
it's resting on a bone, it's in the
wrong position. It needs to sit on that
shelf.
See how snug and comfortable it is right
there. Now, from here, the next thing
that I'm doing is pulling my elbows back
and shoulder blades down. That's the cue
that I apply with all of my back squats.
And that's how I engage all of the right
muscles of my upper back. The elbows
back and the hands close pulls my
shoulder blades together and increases
activation of my midback muscles. That
stops me from breaking form in my upper
back. The elbows down recruits my lats
and that stops me from breaking in my
lower back or the entire back really.
The lats crosses the longest distance of
your spine of all of your core muscles.
And whenever you're loading your spine,
elbows down. Another way of thinking of
that is increase the distance between
your shoulders and your ears. So if
you're shrugging when you're doing a
squat, not very good for lats. Drop
those shoulders and also reach your head
towards the ceiling. So it's kind of
double end. So, pull the shoulders down
and pull the the head up. That's lats.
Hands close,
sitting on the delts, elbows back, and
down. Now, from here,
three step walk out. So, what I want to
do is have my feet directly underneath
my hips here. So, some people have their
feet really wide because that's a strong
base of support. The problem with having
your feet wide is when you walk, you
have to take one foot off the ground.
When you take a foot off the ground,
that's your base of support. So, your
whole body needs to shift. So, these
racks are close for me, but most people
squat out of a power rack in the gym,
and these racks come out to here. So,
what happens is if you shift to the
side, these plates are going to smack
into the racks, and that's very
distracting when you want to lift a
heavy weight. So, what you want to do is
no rocking from side to side. You start
the position with your feet close. So
when you take one foot off the ground,
you're not going to sway to the side.
Stand, feet underneath your hips. The
first step you do is straight back. The
reason why we go straight back is to
clear the rack. You don't go from here
to the side because you notice when I go
to the side, that's where these plates
are going to hit onto the rack. So you
don't want to do that. First step is
straight back. Now we've cleared the
rack. Now the next two steps is where we
position our feet. So that is three
steps. Now, the best way to practice
that is from your very first warm-up
set. So, from the empty bar and practice
that every single time you come under
the bar, what a lot of people do is with
an empty weight, they unrackck it. They
don't really think about it because it's
really light and they think it doesn't
really matter. So, for those sets, it
doesn't matter. So, when you come to the
top set, you don't get a huge amount of
practice of those really, really heavy
weights. That's why you want to practice
perfectly when you're doing all of your
warm-up weights. That's what you need to
be doing with your workout. It's the
three-step workout. feet under your
hips. First step back and then the next
two steps is to get your body in
position.
This takes time to master, especially
when you're going super heavy. So, if
you can't do it in three steps and you
end up here on the third step, you don't
just have to squat just because it's
three steps. Of course, you can adjust
your feet, but that's what you're
working towards as you become a more and
more advanced lifter. So, if you need
four steps or five steps, fine. Work
towards three. That's the optimal way to
save your energy and put yourself in the
best position for a heavy squat. Now,
let's have a look at the rack height.
So, if you have a look at the position
that I'm in here,
some of you might think that's a really
low rack height. Now, here's a few
things that you need to consider. When
that weight gets heavier and heavier, it
squashes your body down further and
further. So, if you're measuring your
rack height from an empty barbell, you
might be correct. When there's no weight
on the bar, there's no compression of
your body. But as that gets heavier and
heavier, what happens is that squashes
your body down and you'll be pushing up
and you won't be able to stand that
weight up because it's too heavy and
it's compressing your body. So my
recommendation is always whatever rack
height you think you're at, choose one
that's slightly lower than that so that
when you get to your top weights, you
would rather squat that weight up than
have to tippy toe that weight down.
Tippy toeing heavy weights down can lead
to catastrophic injuries, which has
happened in the past. So, you're always
going to be safer and stronger. Having
it a little bit too low than a little
bit too high. Now, let's talk footwear.
So, this is my favorite shoes for
squatting. It's not really better than
any other type of flat sold shoe. I'm
choosing a flat sold shoe for my low bar
squat with minimal padding, minimal
cushioning on the sole. I don't want a
big running shoe with thick comfortable
sole of the shoe. That's going to be too
cushiony and it's going to be unstable.
So, you want relatively little amount of
cushioning. Some people do it with bare
feet. That's also okay. But a lot of
gyms don't allow bare feet because of
insurance purposes. In my gym, you're
allowed bare feet, but a lot of gyms,
commercial gyms, they won't allow it.
So, you want a nice flat sold shoe. And
this is my preference. This is actually
a boxing shoe. Um, I think they look
pretty cool as well. They make my cards
look big. added bonus, but they're not
really that much better than any other
flat sold shoe that you might have. So
whether they're Vans or Chuck Taylor or
anything like that, they're also a great
choice of flat sold shoe. What's the
alternative to that? The weightlifting
shoe. So people ask me often, can you
use a weightlifting shoe? Isn't this a
squatting shoe? So technically it's not
a squat shoe, it's a weightlifting shoe.
Weightlifting is the sport you see in
the Olympics. That's the clean and jerk
and the snatch. People refer to that as
Olympic lifting, but technically the
sport's called weightlifting. And that's
a weightlifting shoe. And the reason why
they have a heel elevation like that, of
course, it's the hard stable surface.
But heel elevation is a lot better when
you want to catch a weight in a bottom
position. So in a full squat and and
have your arms overhead. So to have your
arms overhead, you want an upright torso
angle. The flatsold shoe that I'm using
allows me to push my hips back and look
at my torso angle. I'm leaning forward.
I don't want my torso to be leaning
forward when I do a snatch and have my
arms over my head. That's not a strong
position. which is why having the the
heels elevated, so I'm exaggerating
this, having the heels elevated allows a
more upright position, which is a lot
stronger for catching a heavy barbell
overhead. For my low bar squat, I don't
need to catch a barbell overhead. So, I
can lean forward, and in fact, it's a
slight advantage to slightly lean my
torso forward when I'm doing this low
bar squat because that's going to put me
in a position to use my strong hip
extensors. So quad dominant squat, not
much hip extension. Hip dominant squat,
a lot of hip extension. And have a look
at my knee bend. So this is when I do my
my quad dominant squat pattern.
Hamstring press against the calf.
Hip dominant squat pattern. There's a
large gap between my hamstring and calf.
So there's not a lot of knee bend and
therefore not a lot of need for my
quadriceps to work as hard. But there is
a lot more hip bend on this low bar
squat pattern compared to my high bar
squat pattern that I use to build
quadriceps. So comes back to that
question, what if you want to use these
shoes? Can you still use the elevated
heel shoe for a low bar squat? The
answer is of course you can and some of
the best squatters in the world in
powerlifting competition do use that,
but typically the ones that I see using
that are the ones that lack mobility to
achieve powerlifting depth with a flat
sold shoe. So what is powerlifting
depth? That's where the crease of the
hip must go below the top of the knee.
Okay. So hopefully that's demonstrating
that right now. Okay. So that's probably
parallel
and parallel technically is shallow. So
it needs to be below parallel. Okay. And
anything above that is considered a
shallow squat and technically not
allowed in powerlifting competition. So
that's my recommendation is if your goal
is to shift the heaviest loads, you want
to use the heaviest structures, which is
your hips. And if you have the mobility
to achieve powerlifting depth with a
flat sold shoe, that's my preference. If
you lack the mobility to achieve that
depth,
use the weightlifting shoe. The optimal
rep range for squats when your goal is
strength is the 1 to six rep range. When
it comes to strength, all of the science
shows us that you need to be lifting
heavy. How heavy? Anything above 80%.
And if you're going above 80% of your
max, typically it's going to be eight
reps and less. So when it comes to
strength training for your squat
pattern, for strength, less than six
reps.
The next thing you need to consider for
your leg days is accessory exercises.
And I'm going to show you the different
variations just using one piece of
machinery, and that's the leg press. And
the reason I'm doing that is because
it's a very nice complement to your free
weight squat pattern as the first
exercise, which is the most complex, the
most demanding, and then accessory
exercise. We can do things like
machines. But I'm going to show you two
different variations on the exact same
piece of equipment, just like I showed
you, two different variations on the
barbell squat, where you change your
foot position, and therefore you change
the emphasis on where you're building
muscle. So the first way to do a leg
press is probably the most commonly
performed technique is standard foot
position which is just outside of hip
width. And this is very similar to how I
would perform a low bar squat. It's just
outside of hip width pushing through the
whole foot. And it's a very hip dominant
pattern. And the way you can tell it's
hip dominant pattern is my my hips bend
a lot. So my thigh comes all the way up
to my chest and my knees don't bend a
lot. So this is equivalent to what I did
with a low bar squat.
Things that you need to think about. See
these handles here? I'm pulling myself
down so that my lower back doesn't bend
off the pad. You want to keep the spine
nice and neutral.
And the way that I do that is I hold
these p these handles and I pull myself
down.
Great way to perform a leg press. But
this is what you need to consider. If I
just did a low bar squat, which is a hip
dominant squat pattern, why would I want
to do a leg press that does the exact
same movements? It positions the body in
the same way and it targets the
quadriceps in the exact same way, or
should I say the hips in the exact same
way? That's known as exercise
redundancy. And what you want to do is
avoid that by targeting the muscles that
you neglected in the main movement. So
if I did a low bar squat as my first
exercise, I wouldn't want to do the same
muscles in the same movement pattern as
a secondary exercise. I want to choose a
different style, and that's where I'm
going to choose this style of leg press,
which is a quadriceps dominant leg
press. Now, the difference here is I
bring my feet closer and lower. What I
do here, which a lot of people think is
strange, is I
push through the balls of my feet. I
allow my heels to lift, which positions
me in the exact same position as the
stiletto squat. And it's the same
principle. I'm looking to achieve full
knee bend. How do I know it's full knee
bend? My hamstring presses against my
calf in the bottom position. And this
makes this leg press quadriceps
dominance. If I'm going to do a low bar
squat as the first exercise, what I want
to do is complement it with my secondary
exercise with a movement pattern
targeting muscles that I've neglected in
the main movement. So, it's a hip
dominant squat for low bar and now I'm
complenting it with a quad dominant leg
press. On the flip side, if you start
with a quad dominant squat such as the
stiletto squat as the first exercise to
build quadriceps, I don't want to keep
on doing more quads. I should have done
enough of that in the first exercise. I
want to complement it by doing the
secondary exercise as a hip dominant
movement to complement my quad work. So,
this is the hip dominant leg press that
I would use as a secondary exercise to
complement my quad dominant squat
pattern. For the leg press, whether your
goal is strength or muscle building, my
opinion is higher reps are more
suitable. When you're doing a leg press
and you're upside down in that position,
doing the strength rep ranges, which is
the 1 to six rep range, can be pretty
demanding. And I personally feel like my
head is about to explode. So, whenever
I'm doing a leg press, I still consider
that my goal might be strength, but I
need to pair the appropriate reps with
the appropriate exercise. And in my
opinion, the leg press needs a high rep
range to feel like your head's not going
to explode and you get adequate
stimulation. So, I like to do my leg
press from minimum eight rep range all
the way up to 30. The next accessory
exercise is what I consider to be a
musth have in your squat program. The
reason why it's a mustave is although
the squats are a fantastic exercise, so
is the leg press and all of the
variations, there is one muscle in the
quadriceps that you've neglected and
that is the rectus forous. The reason
why you've neglected it is that rectus
forous crosses two joints, the knee
joint and the hip joint. The other three
only cross the knee joint. So whenever
you're bending your knee and
straightening it, you're working all
three heads. But the rectus fororus when
you bend your knee you're also bending
your hip which relaxes that muscle. It's
conflicting actions. So what we need to
do to be able to target that rectus
forous is isolate it. The way that we
isolate the rectus forous is a leg
extension. Now just to clarify it, it's
not just a rectus forous exercise. It
hits all heads of the quadriceps but it
doesn't neglect the rectus foras. And
that is the leg extension. Now yeah
pretty easy to perform. Now, here's a
bonus tip for you. So, this is a
standard leg extension. I'm keeping my
hip fixed and I'm extending my knee
joint. Now, the bonus tip is if you have
access to a machine that you can lean
back a little bit further, that's going
to place you in a position where you
extend your hip joint and create more of
a stretch at that rectus foras. So might
look a little bit funny and feel a
little bit funny but this increases the
length or the stretch on the rectus
forous and has been shown to be superior
for building muscle on that rectus
forous. So if your goal is muscle
building or hypertrophy what muscles do
you want to build? The correct answer is
all of them. I want to build all of my
quadriceps. And if all you do is those
squat pattern or compound squat pattern
exercises you are neglecting rectus. So
whether you got a strength or muscle
building, you don't want to neglect any
muscles. So that means the mandatory
accessory exercise for all of your
squats is a leg extension.
Last but not least is the cherry on top.
Today we're talking about quadriceps,
but when people talk about squats and
legs, you're assuming the entire leg,
which includes hamstrings as well. And
unfortunately, the squat is not a very
good exercise for hamstrings. The reason
for that is the hamstrings cross two
joints, the hip and the knee, just like
the rectus forous. And when you bend the
hip in a squat, you're lengthening the
hamstring, which is a good thing. But
then you bend the knee and that relaxes
it. So they're conflicting actions. So
therefore, if all you do for hamstrings
development is your squat pattern
exercises, you're going to end up with
underdeveloped hamstrings. So, although
this session is about quadriceps, the
reason why I've chosen this as a bonus
exercise is whenever I program for legs,
I'll always add in some hamstring curls,
it's a non-fatiguing exercise. And you
can perform this on every single leg day
to add that extra bit of volume to make
sure that every single muscle of your
hamstrings are being developed. Bonus
tip here. This is a lying hamstring
machine. I actually don't have access to
a seated hamstring curl, but if you have
the choice, the seated hamstring curl is
a knee flexion exercise, but it starts
you off leaning slightly forward, which
increases the stretch at the hamstrings,
which is slightly superior for building
muscles on those hamstrings. But if you
don't have access to that like me, it's
not a deal breaker and this is still a
great exercise. Make sure you're
including your hamstring curls in all of
your leg sessions. Hamstring curls and
leg extensions follow the same rules.
It's an accessory exercise. It's not
complex. And using low rep range
typically doesn't feel amazing. And
that's where sometimes if you go so
heavy with low reps on a leg extension
or a leg curl, it feels like something's
about to snap. So my preferred rep range
for the leg curls and the leg extensions
is typically anywhere between eight reps
up to 15 reps. And now you know the
difference between squatting for muscle
building and squatting for strength gain
and how to put it all together to
achieve your goals. This is information
that took me more than 20 years to learn
and I'm giving it to you because I want
you to succeed. So, if you haven't
already, make sure you click subscribe
on this channel because I'm going to be
bringing you much more of this
information.
So, what do you think of that? Do you
think I did well? How did the squat
look? Do you think Do you think I did
good technique?
Do you think I looked nervous when I was
talking to the camera? Or do you think
that's a little bit better? You think
it's going good?
Yeah, I'm Yeah, I'm really trying I'm
really trying to get more friends. So
hopefully hopefully people will like me.
Yeah. Okay.